Vinegar RFC (#42)
o1-labs/rfcs: 00xx-vinegar.md

    - Note: `prev_challenges` that are the input to `verifier.rs` are coming from 2 itertaions before --- not from the previous proof, but from the one before that. Hence they are over the same group (`prev.challenges.comm` is a commitment, that is group element, and `prev_challenges.chals` are scalar field elements) as the target one for the proof that we are verifying. Hence `prev_challenges.chals` are absorbed in this step.
    - volhovm: what is this "checking that the evaluations satisfy the combined constraint polynomial"? I don't think there's any *checking* or *verification* happening at this point, we merely compute thes polynomial, no?
1. Verify that the polynomial commitments and their evaluations  are consistent by checking the 'opening proof' of the polynomial commitment scheme.
    - This corresponds to `OpeningProof::verify` call in the end of `batch_verify`. Internally, this will combine all the evaluations together, and check that they are consistent with the commitments, jointly.

> In order to *recursively* verify a kimchi proof in pickles, we need to be able to efficiently run these steps inside a circuit. However, some of the operations are run on elliptic curve points -- represented as tuples in the *base field* -- and others are run against the *scalar field*, that is the field $F_q$ of scalars for elliptic curve points that form a group. To handle both without an expensive simulation of foreign field arithmetic in the verifier circuit, instead we generate a pair of circuits, where each shares some of the work.

Reviewer: The exposition about the fields here is redundant with the exposition 2 paragraphs earlier. You can delete it from here and simplify this part.

Pickles is our current implementation of a recursive verifier for the kimchi proof system, implemented as a pair of circuits Step and Wrap implemented on top of kimchi.

> The Step circuit is a kimchi proof over the Vesta curve (its commitments are Vesta curve points); the Wrap circuit is a kimchi proof over the Pallas curve.

Reviewer: More relevant here than `its commitments are Vesta curve points` is that `its witness values are Vesta scalar field elements`; fine to mention both though.

### Verifying a proof in a circuit

> Assume that we are verifying a Pallas (wrap) proof, but the below applies equivalently to Vesta. Here is how the list in the previous section maps on our curves:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume that we are verifying a Pallas (wrap) proof, but the below applies equivalently to Vesta (with step and wrap swapped below). Here is how the list in the previous section maps on our curves:
```

1. The logic for absorbing the commitments is run inside a Vesta proof.

>     - Wrap commitments are Pallas points made of two Pallas base field elements. These are Vesta scalar field elements, which makes them easy to reason about in the Vesta proof -- the next Step proof that verifies a Wrap.

Reviewer: This is a weird place to intro that `vesta_{scalar,base} = pallas_{base,scalar}`. Might be worth extracting to a dedicated paragraph, whose gist is:
* pallas and vesta are a cycle of curves: the scalar field of vesta is the base field of pallas, and the scalar field of pallas is the base field of vesta
* pickles Wrap proofs use the pallas curve, and witness values use the pallas scalar field / vesta base field
* pickles Step proofs use the vesta curve, and witness values use the vesta scalar field / pallas base field.

Then, this can be simplified to
```suggestion
    - The commitments are formed of Vesta scalar field elements, so we can use native arithmetic.
```
or some such.

Author: Will create a separate paragraph. This was not intended to introduce the concept of curves. I'm just repeating the same thing several times in different phrasings/levels of elaboration which is supposed to help the reader to double-check there's no mistake (because everything is symmetric).

* Perform initial verification of the 'VinegarStep' proof over the 'base field'
  - Also `wrap_verifier/incrementally_verify_proof`, but now again for the VinegarStep. Our VinegarWrap, unlike Wrap, wraps two proofs at a time.
* Expose the remaining unverified information from 'VinegarStep' in the public input, so that it can be finalized by a pickles step proof
    - During 'VinegarWrap', the VinegarStep's `challenge_poly_commitments` and `old_bulletproof_challenges` will create `MessageForNextWrap` that will be a part of the VinegarWrap statement. Then they will be passed to the Step proof, and from there consumed in `step_verifier/finalize_other_proof`.
* Expose a public input compatible with the pickles format, so that pickles recursion can operate over the proof.

The operations needed are conceptually very similar to the operations in the existing pickles circuits. However, because we want to avoid hard-coding the particular details of the target kimchi proof into the circuit, we will need to be careful to construct 'VinegarStep' and 'VinegarWrap' in a generic way, with some mechanism to describe the verification steps required for a particular target kimchi-style proof.

> #### Scratch space; incomplete/draft notes

Reviewer: Delete this section, this is from my original notes when I was drafting.
